♪ [music] ♪
Let's take a look at the starter files. If
you first crack open,
you know, the package . JSON or you look
at app.js and you say,
"Wes, these are the starter files? This
seems like more code than I would expect
to have on the ender files," in that
stupid ender file. But what we need to
know here is that we are going to be
building our application on something
called Express. And Express is a fast,
un-opinionated, minimalist web framework
for Node.js. So what is important about
that is that it's un-opinionated and it's
minimalist. Meaning that it doesn't do a
whole lot by itself. So we need to pick
and choose different pieces of
the Node ecosystem in order to
make things work for us.
So, it's fairly common in the Node
ecosystem where nothing really comes
batteries included. We are always working
with external modules.
We sort of just pull out different parts
and use them together.
Now that's Express. That's what we're
going to be using here. We are using a
site called Express Session to manage
sessions, we'll learn all about that.
We are using Mongoose to work with our
MongoDB database. So that's sort of the
interface for it. Then there's a couple of
other stuff here. I'm not going to go
through absolutely everything here just
right now. But we are going to come back
and understand like what is a cookie
parser, what is a body parser,
what is passport, what is promisify, what
is error-handling strategy,
what is our middleware? We're going to
learn all about these pieces.
And rather than me sit here and explain
all of the pieces to you right now,
what's going to happen is we're going to
learn each of these different pieces as we
build our application. And as it's in
context, we're going to come back to this
app.js file and understand, okay, this is
actually what it's doing.
Also, what I want to tell you is that we
have a start.js file and what the start.js
file does is first, it imports Mongoose,
which is going to be how we interface with
our MongoDB. Then I've got this little if
statement here. "If you've made it this
far and you are on a greater version than
Node 7.6..." This is just here to make
sure that people don't skip this video and
start out with the old version of Node.
So if you are on that, you can go ahead
and delete that, if you like.
Then we have this thing called
"Environmental variables." Now what
"Environmental Variables" are is,
generally, that's where you store your
sensitive information. That's where you
store your passwords, and usernames,
and log-ins, and API keys, and tokens, and
anything that you need to keep safe.
So if we open up the variables.env... The
reason why we don't keep this in like a
.txt or a .js file is that this should
never actually go into your GitHub Repo or
your Git Repo at all because this is based
on the environment that you're on.
So we have a variables.env file that we're
going to be using on this file.
But you're also going to have one of these
up on your server and then that's going to
be in production, maybe your database will
be different, maybe your mail server will
be different. You'll have different API
keys for all of those different ones.
So what this package here does, .env, it
will take anything that is in here and
allow us to access it via
process.env.thenameofthevariable. So we're
going to be using that quite a bit. That's
why we put it in here.
And when we first started off in the last
video, we renamed it as a .sample on the
end. So just triple check that you do not
have a .sample on the end of that.
Here is what we're doing is we are
connecting to our MongoDB instance.
So earlier, we used our application,
Compass, to connect to our database.
But if we actually want to interface with
it with code, MongoDB is going to connect
to it. Now, we don't type in MongoDB right
here. And the reason is because that will
change depending on if we're locally or if
we're in production.
So we say process.env.database and then
you can see that database is a variable
that we have in this ENV file
and that is set in there.
We are going to be using ES6 Promises in
that Mongoose so you could also use
external libraries like Bluebird. But we
are going to be using the built-in one so
that we can use async/await. That's why we
have to do this little line right here.
And then finally, what we are doing is
we're listening for any errors that
Mongoose is going to throw us. So if we're
having trouble connecting or something
times out, we just want to console
log it. Where that will show up
is in our terminal once we start things.
Finally, we require this application here.
We're going to be getting into this whole
require thing in a bit, don't worry if you
don't know it. And then we kick off our
server. So let's get that started and just
make sure that everything works for us.
So let's go back to our terminal here and
you type "NPM start." And what NPM start
will do is, if you ever want to know what
these commands are that we're typing in,
is you can open up your package.json. And
your package.json will have a script and
this will contain a whole bunch of
different scripts that we can run.
And in our case, we have a start which is
going to kick off another task called "NPM
run watch," which is this one, Nodemon
start.js and we're going to ignore the
public file. What that means is that we're
going to kick off a Node process which
will start on start.js. And we're using a
package called "Nodemon" which will
monitor our files. And any time there's a
change to one of our JavaScript files,
this is going to kill itself and restart
the whole process, the whole server again.
This is not like PHP where you simply
refresh the browser. You need to stop the
process and start it again, and that's
what Nodemon will do.
And then also, we are going to run assets
which is just another command that we have
here, and that will kick off a web pack
task. And this is just for our CSFs in our
client side JavaScript. So this assets
right here, the web pack has absolutely
nothing to do with our backend process.
It's simply just there so that we can
compile our SaaS into CSS and compile our
frontend JavaScript into a bundle for us.
So that's what that does right there. I'm
not going to go into the web pack stuff in
this course but if you're interested, I've
heavily commented the web pack.
That will just go into exactly what
everything is going on in there.
There's a couple of other ones in here in
terms of deployment and loading in sample
data. We'll get into all of that. But for
now, I just want to make sure that we can
get everything running. So when we run NPM
start, what should happen is we're kicking
off our concurrently task with the logs
that come from the computer,
meaning that's coming from our node
application. And the logs that come from
the box are the logs that are coming from
our web pack application.
So you should see Express is running on
port 7777. And if we go to our browser
here and type in, "local host 7777," you
should see, hey, it works.
So if you've gotten that far, we will skip
to the next video and actually get into
covering some of the fundamental
concepts of this course.
♪ [music] ♪